{
   title: "Education Technology",
   layout: "post",
   pubdate: "10/22/2013 10:45 AM"
}

"Education Technology", or "Ed Tech", is a somewhat hot area right now, in terms of technology and investment interest.  Bear with me as a I try to get my head around the concept.  My original version of this was a little inflammatory and really not well thought out.  I realize now that this still isn't well thought out.  They are just initial thoughts.

Now, I am in favor of investment in *new lines of education*.  But from my reckoning, our existing system can only be fixed by giving more money to teachers and students.  Selling products to the existing system (without adding more money) inevitably takes away money from teachers and students.  So an educational product would have to *create substantially more value* than simply giving the equivalent money to teachers and students.  I may simply be lacking imagination, I can't imagine what the product is.  What we have here is the educational version of the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conservation_of_energy">law of conservation of energy</a>.

MOOCs are a relatively interesting "new" educational product, though online classes have been around as long as people have been online.  Longer, if you include good old correspondence classes. Be all that as it may, MOOCs in particular raise a few questions:

1. At a certain level of student engagement, they probably won't scale.  Right now a large majority of the students aren't engaged.  If a high percentage were engaged, MOOCs would need to throw more people at the thing, which takes the "M" out of "MOOC".
2. Where does the money come from to pay for them?  For a free class, it would then have to be subsidized by the tuition of students who attend that univerisity (and by extension the federal government). That is an extremely dubious value proposition for the people footing the bill.  What do they get out of it?
3. The material in MOOCs has been available in various forms, online, for a long time;  and the information has been freely available in libraries even longer.  So, what is the motiviation for completing a MOOC?  A self motivated learner will have already had this information available to them, so a MOOC would have relatively little appeal.  And the aforementioned self motiviated learner is a small, small percentage of the population, again taking the "M" out of "MOOC".   Is Accreditation the Motivation?  Then what do the footers of the bill (via #2) think about that (if they even care)?.

Anyway, here are some guiding principles for those who care about improving education via technology:

1. Schools are not businesses, nor should they be run as such.
2. Students are not consumers, nor are they clients.  They are usually just kids.
3. Ideally companies in this space should be operated as a non-profit, particularly if educational technology is their only business.  If it is not their only line of business, they should sell products to schools at a significant discount. (emphasis on ideally).

I personally have several ideas for using technology to augment education for our children.  I will share those later with the 1s of you reading this site sometime in the future!  Keep your fingers crossed.

