{
   title: "Education Technology",
   layout: "post",
   pubdate: "10/22/2013 10:45 AM"
}

"Education Technology", or "Ed Tech", is a somewhat hot area right now, in terms of technology and investment interest.  Bear with me as a I try to get my head around the concept, and realize that this still isn't well thought out.  They are just initial thoughts.

Now, I am in favor of investment in *new lines of education*.  But from my reckoning, our existing system can only be fixed by giving more money to teachers and students.  (And I like that solution for personal reasons, but for pragmatic reasons, in USA, Planet Earth, it just ain't gonna happen).  Selling products to the existing system (without adding more money) inevitably takes away money from teachers and students.  So an educational product would have to *create substantially more value* than would simply giving the equivalent money to teachers and students.  I am probabably lacking in imagination, but I don't know what this substantial value creating tool would be.  What we have here is the educational version of the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conservation_of_energy">law of conservation of energy</a>.

Checking out the current progress department, MOOCs appear to me to be relatively interesting new educational product, though online classes have been around as long as people have been online.  Longer, if you include good old correspondence classes. Be all that as it may, MOOCs, while promising, raise a few questions:

1. At a certain level of student engagement, they probably won't scale.  Right now a large majority of the students in MOOCs aren't engaged with the class.  If a high percentage were engaged, MOOCs would need to throw more people at the thing, which takes the "M" out of "MOOC".
2. Where does the money come from to pay for a MOOC?  A free online offering would have to be subsidized by the tuition of students who attend that univerisity (and by practical extension the federal government). That is an extremely dubious value proposition for the people footing the bill.  What do they get out of it?
3. The material in MOOCs has been available in various forms, online, for a long time;  and the information has been freely available in libraries even longer.  So, what is the motiviation for completing a MOOC?  A self motivated learner will have already had this information available to them, so a MOOC would have relatively little appeal.  The target audience of MOOCs at this stage of the game is the aforementioned self motiviated learner and they comprise a miniscule percentage of the population, which again takes the "M" out of "MOOC".   Is Accreditation the Motivation?  Then what do the footers of the bill (via #2) think about MOOC accreditation (if they even care)?.

Anyway, here are some guiding principles that I'm spitballing for those who care about improving education via technology:

1. Schools are not businesses, nor should they be run as such.
2. Students are not consumers, nor are they clients.  They are usually just kids.
3. Ideally companies in this space should be operated as a non-profit, particularly if educational technology is their only business.  If it is not their only line of business, they should sell products to schools at a significant discount. (emphasis on ideally).

I personally have several ideas for using technology to augment education for our children.  I will share those later with the 1s of you reading this site sometime in the future!  Keep your fingers crossed.

