{
   title: "2004 called, and...",
   layout: "post",
   pubdate: "10/14/2013 4:45 PM"
}

Here is what I've gleaned over the years reading about unit testing and various methodologies, and attempting to practice one or the other to varying degrees of success.

1. I use unit tests and integration tests as much as possible.  Testing is like exercising.  Doing it is good for you, and it's easy once you get in the habit, but practice moderation.
2. Sometimes I write these tests before I write a function, but usually after, and sometimes whenever. Once you start doing it you 
will start to recognize the benefits of consistently unit testing yoru code.  It's pretty much a settled/written in stone issue anymore, and there aren't many downsides, other than possily creating an impossibly slow test suite, and getting stuck in a testing nautilus where you sacrifice everything (usability, timelines, common sense) to the testability gods.  
3. Avoid using a shared database for tests.
4. Avoid using shared data among tests.
5. I personally think it's a good idea to test against the database though.
6. Just pick a framework and use it.  I use NUnit, JUnit, and whatever comes with Python.  Stick with the basics - you don't need anything else.
7. If you use a compiled language, you can probably take some liberties with what gets tested.  If you are using a dynamic language, you should test as much as possible.
8. I hate javascript.
9. If you are reaching for the mocking framework, re-evaluate what exactly you are doing because you are heading for the navel-gazing nautilus spiral of doom.
10. If you are stubbing out or faking something like the system time, there is a good chance you have some undesirable side effects in that function. Pure it up a little and maybe pass the value in as a parameter.
11. I don't have tests published for my projects on Github because I'm ever so lazy.  I didn't feel like pulling them out for my Python project, and I lean heavily on FSI for my F#, and F# is statically typed, so there wasn't much benefit to the F# tests.

